---
title: A1 - Needfinding
layout: doc
---

# Project Design - Finding people's needs

One of the most important things for any social media is content. Regardless of whether it is images, text, audio, or video; new content must be published on the platform in order for shareholders to find any value in it. As such, platforms must have content creators willing to post on their sites. However, one key issue with content creation is that a lot of content will be [reposted without permission](https://www.pcmag.com/news/instagram-goes-after-accounts-that-only-repost-other-peoples-content) or even [stolen](https://www.wired.com/story/nft-fraud-qinni-art/). This Need Finding Assignment focuses on how both content creators and everyday users are affected by such events, and will propose possible design avenues for either ammending current social media platforms or for a new platform to consider.

## Interview planning

### Who to interview
In order to get a complete image on this issue, both of the key parties, creators and users, should be interviewed. A content creator would be asked questions focusing more on any situations in which they have dealt with reposting or theft, cases of repeat offenders, and how they managed to deal with these. For the average users, the questions would be more focused on how often do they see reposting occuring on social media, if they look for the original posters, and where do they see this happen the most.

To limit the scope of the issues, there was one restriction placed while selecting a content creator. They had to make content that would be posted on some of the most popular social media platforms, such as X (formerly Twitter), Instagram, or Tik Tok; without needing to redirect to another platform to view their content. This meant that no video game developers were included.

### Points to focus on
#### For Content Creator
- What sort of content do you post?
- Have you had any cases of reposting or stolen work?
- How did you deal with reposters?
- How do reposters affect you?

#### For Average User
- What sort of content do you usually watch?
- Do you ever run into people reposting? How often?
- Do you usually try to find the original poster? What do you do?
- How do other users react to reposts?
- Do you see this happen in any platform in particular? (If they use multiple platforms)

## Interviews
### Creator: Digital Artist
[Raw Notes](../files/A1/Interview%201%20RAW.pdf)

Chris is a digital artist based in Toronto. She has been doing both original work and fanart since 2019, although she has had to hold multiple accounts over the years. Having these accounts has helped her gain a following, earn commision work, and get into contact with industry professionals in Illumination and Pixar. They have dealt with multiple cases of reposted or stolen work, although they've accepted that it is inevitable and will try to make sure she knows about them. In cases where they consistently steal or repost without giving credit, Chris usually calls them out publically on Instagram in order to get their content reported and taken down, since a lot of time potential engagement towards her page gets redirected to these reposting sites.

### User: College student
[Raw Notes](../files/A1/Interview%202%20RAW.pdf)

*Note: Requested to be made anonymous prior to the interview*

They are also a digital artist, although they have a smaller following online. When they use social media, a lot of the artistic content tends to come from pages that repost content based on interests. These pages usually include credit to the artist in their captions, or will get called out in the comments with the some way to reach out to the artist (such as tagging them). However, sometimes images have been reposted so much that the original cannot be found easily with more extreme methods, such as reverse image searches. Another thing they noted was a lot of content being stolen and reposted on other sites, such as for [@wengwengchim](https://x.com/wengwengchim), whose content was posted without permision onto Instagram and Tik Tok. As such, a lot of creators have made accounts in other platforms just to be able to report stolen content.

## Design Opportunities
1. Implement better takedown systems. 
2. Find ways to block reposting or to automatically add credits (possibly via reverse image searches)
3. Ban accounts that only repost or steal content from other accounts.
4. As a stretch objective: Create an industry standard to avoid people from cross-posting without permission.