---
title: A4 - Backend (Beta)
layout: doc
---
# ArtClick Backend
Now that ArtClick has been scoped out, we can begin implementing different parts of ArtClick. For this assignment, we'll get the backend working. This will involve three main parts:
1. Creating Data Models and adding them to the database
2. Synchronizing different parts 
3. Creating meaningful API routes

## Abstract Data Model
**TODO**

## Synchronizations
There were some changes made to the base synchronizations needed in order to allow for a more streamlined experience.

One key change was adding whitelist creation and deletion when users were created or deleted.
```ts
async createUser(session: SessionDoc, username: string, password: string) {
    Sessioning.isLoggedOut(session);
    const aus = await Authing.create(username, password);
    if (aus.user) {
      await Whitelisting.create(aus.user._id, [])
    };
    return aus;
}
```
When creating a new user, we first make their associated Authentication. Once that is complete, we add their id to the `owner` field of the list.

```ts
async deleteUser(session: SessionDoc) {
    const user = Sessioning.getUser(session);
    Sessioning.end(session);
    const list = await Whitelisting.getByOwner(user);
    if (list){
      Whitelisting.delete(list._id, user);
    }
    return await Authing.delete(user);
}
```
When deleting a user, we make sure to get their associated list and deleting it before deleting the user. This makes sure that we don't have a list with no associated user.

From there, we created some new synchronizations in order to add new functionality.

```ts
async getWhitelist(session: SessionDoc) {
    const user = Sessioning.getUser(session);
    return await Whitelisting.getList(user);
}
```

```ts
  async addToWhitelist(session: SessionDoc, entry: string) {
    const user = Sessioning.getUser(session);
    const oldList = await Whitelisting.getByOwner(user);
    if (oldList){
      return await Whitelisting.add(oldList._id, entry);
    }
  }
```

```ts
  async removeFromWhitelist(session: SessionDoc, entry: string) {
    const user = Sessioning.getUser(session);
    const oldList = await Whitelisting.getByOwner(user);
    if (oldList){
      return await Whitelisting.remove(oldList._id, entry);
    }
  }
```

## Created routes
For the Whitelisting and Tracking concepts, we created the `/whitelist` and `/track` routes as a starting point. From there, we added the following routes to improve functionality.
- `/whitelist` has a `GET` method associated to it, letting a user to retrieve a whitelist.
- `/whitelist/add` has a `PATCH` method, this allows users to add an entry to their whitelist.
- `/whitelist/remove` has a `PATCH` method, this allows users to remove an entry from their whitelist.
- `/track/:target` has a `GET` method associated to it, letting a user to retrieve a tracker for a given `target`. If the tracker does not exist, it creates a new tracker with its counter set to 0. It also has a `PATCH` method to increment `target`'s tracker by 1, and a `DELETE` method in order to remove a tracker associated to a `target`.

### Manual Testing
See [here](https://61040-project-1.vercel.app/).

### Outline for remaining routes
**TODO**

## Changes from A3 design
One of the main changes from *A3* was a change in dependencies. I noticed that we don't need to create an external dependency from **Tracking** to **Authenticating**, but we do need one from **Tracking** to **Whitelisting**.