---
title: A6 - User Testing and Improvements
layout: doc
---
# Testing and Improving ArtClick
Now that there is a first iteration of ArtClick, we need to get user feedback in order to find different avenues of improvement. This will consist of giving a sample of users a list of tasks, then getting and processing their feedback to find some of the ways ArtClick is meeting their needs and expectations, while also finding flaws in the system.

## List of tasks
| Name | Description | Objective |
|------|-------------|-----------|
| Create an account | On ArtClick, create an account with a username and password of your choice. | The first step for any new user. If the process is difficult or obscure, potential users will not join the platform. If a user seems to show any confusion or doubts in this process, this would have to change. |
| Create a post | Now that you're logged in, create two posts using the provided images. | The primary interaction in ArtClick. Having a straight forward process to post makes it easier for users to interact and protect their art. |
| Like and Dislike posts from specific users | Find any post from *greatLizard321* and like or dislike it. | One of the base interactions. Making it clear when a post has been liked or dislike can help promote users and filter posts in the future. |
| Allow a user to repost | Make sure *greatLizard321* is allowed to repost your content. | Since one of the main features of ArtClick is to make reporting an easier experience, we also need to add ways to prevent accidentally reporting an allowed account. As such, the idea is to make this a easy, one-time thing. |
| Report other users | Other users have used your content in their posts, report them using the report page. | One of the main focuses of ArtClick is to allow users to protect their art, so a key function is making reporting easier. ArtClick has a page to report multiple users at once, so seeing hoew users interact and use this page matters to see if this function helps a user. |
| Edit a post's text or image | Either edit the text or change the image in any one of your posts | Another important feature is editing, since it let's a user correct any accidents or mistakes. However, any difficulties can make users more reluctant to post and interact, so an easy editing experience matters. |


## Testing Notes and feedback
### User 1
User 1 is a digital artist, one of the main shareholders in ArtClick. They had no difficulty with any of the base tasks, creating an account and posting relatively quickly. They struggled when adding the image to their post, since this required using a public Google Drive image, however on clarification they added it promptly. This was expected, since it’s an unusual method to add images. Most people upload images directly from their device, not from a separate service like Google Drive. A minor block happened when liking and disliking posts, since clicking on the button only updated the counter and gave no feedback to User 1. They were unsure if they had successfully made the change until they tried disliking and re-liking the same post. When attempting to do the **Allow a user to repost** task, they also struggled. They looked around on the interface for a long time, mostly trying to interact with the usernames and posts on the Home Page. It had to be clarified that they needed to check the Whitelist page to complete this task. For the **Report other users** task, they had some difficulty finding where and how to report other posts and users. Once they were told to check the Repeated Images page, they completed the task quickly. Finally, they were able to edit their posts quickly, even mentioning that they liked that the buttons were readily available and that it was a very straightforward process.

Overall, User 1 had a mixed experience in using this version of ArtClick. They enjoyed how easy it was to create and interact with content. However, they also had trouble with user interactions, expecting these to be accessible from clicking on a user or on a menu nearby. This flow break became apparent when trying to allow reposting or reporting a user. Reorganizing how some pages work, alongside adding menus would allow for a better flow based on previous conceptions.


### User 2
User 2 had some difficulty creating their account, since they could not recall or check the password they put in. There was also no way for them to recover the password, which interrupted the flow of the tasks. After recovering their password, they had an easy time creating posts, after explaining that images must be included via Google Drive. User 2 also edited and liked/disliked posts with no issues, even using the Post look-up function When reaching the **Allow a user to repost** task, they initially struggled to find the Whitelist page. However, they found it on their own and had no issues with using this feature. Another feature they struggled with was Reporting. They originally tried to report directly on the home page and had to be told to navigate to the correct page. They also didn’t know what to do after reporting the posts, which is understandable since there is no clear feedback that the reports were successful.

In their debrief, User 2 did mention that they felt that this version of ArtClick was not very responsive. This perceived lack of responsiveness, alongside ArtClick not following the mental model that User 2 had in their head, contributed to the breaks in the cognitive flow when completing some of the tasks. One example of this was with looking up posts by user, User 2 attempted to user a partial match (“great”), but didn’t get any. They did find the Whitelist page easy to use, especially since the page would update live and give feedback in case the user being whitelisted did or did not exist. The main issue they had was that certain items were in unusual locations, such as creating posts, reporting, and logging out. While this is minor, it is something that can be solved.


## Ways to improve
- Missing feedback from certain tasks (moderate, physical): Some actions, such as reporting users and liking posts, don't have some inherent or persistent feedback. This leads to some users being unsure if they have done these actions successfully, or if they have done the action previously. Some possible solutions to this would be adding a toast that would appear when they're done, as well as a different icon or entry to represent that the action was completed previously.
- Unclear on how to use reporting function (critical, linguistic): Both users had to get help to locate and use the report function, since they first tried to use access it by interacting with the posts directly, either by looking for some sort of menu or by clicking on the username of a post. This is most likely happening due to the concepts of how such a feature should work according to the users is different from the one used in ArtClick. One possible solution would be to add the menu that the users were looking for, which would allow a user to report another user directly from the home page. Another option would be to clarify how the function works by adding in a tutorial when someone creates an account. Ideally, it would be a combination of both, reporting from the post and having a dedicated page which is shown by a tutorial.
- Unexpected item locations (minor, linguistic): Both users reported that certain items should be in different locations, such as post creation and the post feed, or the log out button being in the settings page. This is due to certain common tasks being in less accessible places, while less common tasks are easily accessible. One possible solution would be restructuring the site to move these tasks, such as placing the log out button on the nav bar and moving post creation to a dedicated page. This would require that the new site layout would receive user testing, as to make sure the cognitive flow for different users is uninterrupted.