---
title: P1 - Impact Case
layout: doc
---

# **Project Phase 1: Impact Case**
###### Binary Beasts
###### Claire Lorenzo, Cameron Young, Marcelo Maza, Fabian Yanez-Laguna

## Contract

Expected level of achievement and effort for each team member (what grades do you expect to get? how much time do you plan to put in?)  
  * We are aiming for an A or B. We will put in however much time is necessary to achieve this.

Personal goals for each team member (building a great app? learning a particular skill?)  
  * Cameron: I want to further build my skills in UI design and create an app I am proud of  
  * Fabian: I want to further develop my skills both as a developer and designer  
  * Claire: I would like to get way better at front-end design and skills because I feel like that is where I struggle the most  
  * Marcelo: I would like to get better at design, making sure our app is easy to use.  

Frequency, length and location of team meetings  
  * At least twice per week, either in the stud or on zoom  
  * No set length for meetings for now, will be on a case per case basis  
  * Check-ins when needed  

How quality of work will be maintained (reviewing each others’ code? team review meetings? pair programming?)  
  * Review each other’s code, no pair programming unless necessary 

How tasks will be assigned, and what to do if deadlines are missed  
  * Tasks will be assigned such that each member works about the same amount of time. If a member misses a deadline, they should communicate with the team ahead of time in order to redistribute the work and meet the deadline. Should someone still miss the deadline, other members will help complete any tasks.  

How decisions will be made and any disagreements resolved  
  * Through vote, majority rules. Regardless of the issue, any member can make their case.

## Draft Impact Case

1. The problem of barriers preventing people from living a healthy lifestyle is important because oftentimes people do not have the time or resources to overcome these barriers. Barriers often include things such as time, lack of knowledge, lack of skill, inaccessible information, low funds, and low motivation.  
2. Our solution to address this problem is an app which acts as a middleman between patients and health professionals (doctors, nurses, personal trainers, etc.). Through this app, patients are able to report symptoms and receive exercise/lifestyle change prescriptions recommended by health professionals. The app will involve a tracker that allows both patients to hold themselves accountable and health professionals to track patient’s progress. Along with the prescription plan itself, the app will provide instruction and advice on each specific exercise or lifestyle change. For users who already have existing regimens, the app will allow users to upload their own exercises and lifestyle choices. Users who consistently make progress in reaching all of their goals can earn badges.  
3. We believe this app is a good solution because it directly removes the barriers of time and inaccessible information—if people have an issue, they can report their symptoms and get a reputable plan to help alleviate these symptoms. This solution empowers those who don’t have resources to see a doctor as frequently as they may need. While there are many health issues which require appointments and prescriptions outside of exercise/lifestyle changes, this app is focused on overall helping people bridge the gap towards a healthy way of living.   
4. We could measure user-reported improvements in physical and mental health, and reduced symptom severity to prove that our application is a good solution to removing barriers preventing people from living a healthy lifestyle.

## List of interview roles and potential interviewees 
We wanted to have a diverse pool of interviewees that would cover a lot of our stakeholders as well as some health care experts, so we came up with the following list of roles for interviews:

1) A young person or student that is looking to ameliorate their health or struggles with day to day healthy habits, and doesn’t necessarily have the resources to change this (one of our stakeholders).  
2) A fitness or wellbeing employee, potentially from somewhere in MIT’s health or physical education departments, to give insights on healthy exercise needs and the gaps in accessibility for this exercise.  
3) A medical professional that would potentially be using this application to help users with their healthy habits  
4) A school official that could give more insights on the needs of young users in particular.

## Interview plans and summaries of key lessons

### Director of an early education school owned by a healthcare organization (St. John Neumann School)  
  * Has potential insight on the barriers several families at her school face in receiving healthcare  
  * Has insight on how younger students take care of themselves  
  * Key Questions:  
    * What are some of the most common barriers you see in children and their families when it comes to maintaining a healthy lifestyle?  
    * What resources are provided to teach students how to live healthy lifestyles?   
    * What features do you believe would make this app most appealing to parents and teachers?  
    * Are there any features you think would make this app more valuable for school-based health programs?  

### Potential app client  
  * Has experience with trying out new types of exercise and trying to improve his diet  
  * Has tried using different diet/fitness apps  
  * Key questions:  
    * Do you set goals when it comes to exercising? If so, what prevents you from reaching them and how do you track your progress?  
    * How much do you trust online fitness and diet information that you find relative to receiving in-person advice from professionals? In other words, are there any concerns you have with using technology to live a healthier lifestyle?  
    * When trying out a new type of exercise that you started doing \- such as running, lifting, or a sport \- did you do any research on it? If so, how did you go about learning more about it?  
    * How much do you think about the kinds of foods that you eat?  
    * How do you go about learning more about eating healthy?  
    * How comfortable do you feel sharing health data?  
    * What motivates you to be consistent with the healthy lifestyle goals that you set?  

### Fitness/Nutrition Instructor  
  * Has first-hand experience with people learning and applying lifestyle changes  
  * Knows what kind of changes people apply consistently vs temporarily  
  * Key Questions:  
    * What are the main changes people need to make to have a healthier lifestyle?  
    * How often do people make and stick to these changes?  
    * What has helped people stick to their changes?  
    * Do apps help people make meaningful changes to their lifestyle?  

### Medical Professional  
  * Can attest to what wellness resources are currently available for patients   
  * Key questions:  
    * Are there specific lifestyle changes that patients struggle to maintain without support?  
    * How would you approach creating personalized exercise or lifestyle prescriptions for patients with different health goals /conditions?  
    * How important is goal setting and tracking progress for patient motivation?  
    * How frequently should a patient check in with a health professional to discuss progress or update symptoms?  
    * How can patients track symptom severity and health improvements over time?

## Research results

* Long-term use of fitness apps improves the regularity of a user’s physical activity, the frequency of exercise, and enhances well being.  
* Adding a social media function has been shown to have a mediating effect on a fitness app’s use, however other research has shown that social media can have an adverse effect on mental health.  
* A good calorie counting app may be a feasible tool for people trying to lose weight, but should not be a stand-alone tool. This leaves space for an app that allows users to communicate with health professionals as well as to track and maintain their lifestyle.  
* Using telemedicine can help reach patients who are unable to see a provider in person, usually at a lower rate.  
* There are currently many concerns with telemedicine, such as possible diagnostic errors, sub-optimal communication leading to issues with medication safety, and a lack of necessary equipment in order to diagnose and treat illnesses, or escalate them if necessary.  
* Most telemedicine apps focus on short-term diagnostics and prescriptions or mental health. Some examples, such as GoodRx Care and K Health, allow for prescriptions for lab tests and medication, alongside communicating with a provider. Others, such as BetterHelp and Talkspace, focus on counseling and therapy. However, there is no telemedicine app focusing on nutrition or fitness.  
* Some apps, such as BetterHelp, have had issues with patient confidentiality due to having users complete questionnaires and hand over sensitive data to third parties. If we remove third-party pressures, we could remove this possible information leak.

### Sources
*<small> Cai, Jie, and Gang Li. “Exercise or Lie down? The Impact of Fitness App Use on Users’ Wellbeing.” Frontiers in Public Health, U.S. National Library of Medicine, 10 Jan. 2024, [https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10806118/](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10806118/) </small>*

*<small>O’Malley, Grace, et al. “Telehealth and Patient Safety.” Telehealth and Patient Safety., [https://psnet.ahrq.gov/primer/telehealth-and-patient-safety](https://psnet.ahrq.gov/primer/telehealth-and-patient-safety). Accessed 7 Nov. 2024. </small>*

*<small>Ezeamii, Victor C, et al. “Revolutionizing Healthcare: How Telemedicine Is Improving Patient Outcomes and Expanding Access to Care.” Cureus, U.S. National Library of Medicine, 5 July 2024, [https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11298029/](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11298029/). </small>*

## Interview Notes
### Interview \#1 with School Director:
* Families often face obstacles such as lack of resources, transportation, language and technology barriers, and a lack of guidance in accessing health services. The app's role as a “middleman” could help overcome these barriers by offering accessible, guided resources and bridging language/technology gaps, making it easier for families to connect with health professionals.  
* The director emphasized that an app offering clear guidance and incentives could be helpful, especially for families needing motivation to follow a healthier lifestyle. One thing she affirmed is that in order for this app to help people, users must actually be dedicated to living a healthy lifestyle. There must be a way for the application to encourage dedication.  
* Accountability through technology could resonate with younger users, but motivation may still be a challenge for adults. Features like family-based tracking and community challenges could help make progress tracking appealing across generations, creating a family-friendly environment where everyone participates.   
* Practical features like taking selfies at the gym to ensure completion of tasks, seamless appointment scheduling, and simple progress tracking were suggested by the director. She also suggested the app should also allow families to track their activities together, providing a sense of shared responsibility and encouraging consistent engagement. This idea can be expanded to simply include groups of friends.  
* I found that the director’s school does a great job in giving students and families the resources needed to live a healthy lifestyle. She suggested integrating interactive, child-friendly educational modules on topics such as nutrition, cooking, hygiene, and exercise. While most low-income families have at least one phone, accessibility remains a concern.  
* The app could also be geared towards schools and become more general. Schools could reward students themselves but use the app for tracking and educational purposes.

### Interview \#2 with Fitness/Nutrition Instructor
* One of the main barriers for people to make lifestyle changes is motivation. Being told to make a change by a doctor or family member is not enough. The app could help provide the motivation, by reinforcing the goals of whoever uses the app. Letting the user set a goal or milestones, then having some sort of celebration for those milestones can increase motivation.  
* Being able to record and see both your own progress and other users' progress can help motivate you. The Fitness instructor mentioned Strava as a huge help when it comes to training/running. Being able to see her improvement over time, as well as her son’s and friend’s progress really helps her get motivated to do longer workouts. We should use this in our app, by allowing people to log their own workouts and follow others to see their progress. However, we should limit the interactions to just workouts, to avoid other common issues with social media, such as harassment.  
* “One thing I try to do is to make sure to meet people in the middle” Different people have different access to resources, whether it’s food, workout environment, or time. We need to make sure that our app accounts for this, whether it’s doctors/professionals adding in routines or someone looking for a starting point. One way would be to add open spots for people to add their workout.

### Interview \#3 with potential app client \- MIT junior
* Tracking things such as calorie intake and exercise metrics are not useful for many people because they just keep a rough mental model of what they need to do to make progress. According to the interviewee, tracking certain metrics on an app requires too much work and the level of detail is not necessary. Also, there are also a lot of apps that already exist that specifically track diet and exercise metrics, such as MyFitnessPal.   
* The informational aspect of our app was undervalued. There are many resources online for diet and exercise tips but having a centralized source of data with some sort of organization could be very useful.  
* Sometimes usually only trust information online if multiple sources concur so it might be useful to provide multiple sources for the information that is present in the app.  
* People likely won’t have a problem with sharing personal data about exercise and diet. 

### Interview \#4 Notes \- Family Doctor
* Although doctors can recommend exercise and lifestyle changes to patients, it is very hard to make sure they are following through  
* Doctors / generalists and family doctors  as well as medical professionals in general are extremely busy and overbooked, and very rarely have a regular contact with patients for this type of issue, patients will go months without talking to their doctor which for general wellness purposes isnt very efficient  
* Usually, to measure symptoms, doctors will use a scale (1-10) to describe gravity. If medical symptoms are something we will want to be tracking, this scale could be helpful  
* Patients who struggle with wellness issues (weight gain, chronic pain, etc) often have a hard time keeping track of symptoms over time which makes it hard to make precise diagnoses.  
* Currently no system for patients to keep track of results and report to physicians  
* A lot of patients who live unhealthy lifestyles also do not know about how to live a healthier life, and meeting with a doctor very rarely does not necessarily help with this type of information  
* Mentioned the importance of having things in one specific portal because it can be hard for doctors to work across several platforms

## VSD Analysis
### Stakeholders
* Healthcare professionals could be negatively affected if people choose to use technology to assess and improve their physical health rather than using technology  
* People could use different tracking functionalities for unintended purposes, such as using a diet tracker function to record a recipe  
* Family members and friends may indirectly benefit from users’ improved health  
* Anyone who wants to improve their physical health through diet and/or fitness could benefit from the app

### Time
* Maintaining a healthy lifestyle through diet and exercise will never become obsolete.   
* Using the app over a long period of time should, in theory, enhance people’s overall well being  
*  As diet and fitness research changes over time, the informational aspect of the app would have to be constantly updated  
* The customizable part of the app, such as tracking exercises and diet, is naturally adaptable to changes in research and general notions of diet/exercise without requiring changes to the app

### Pervasiveness
* App would be pervasive across different cultures and countries since maintaining physical health is universal  
* Widespread adoption can lead to societal shifts in the way people eat and stay fit  
* Differences in diet and type of exercise across countries doesn’t matter since the app will be customizable according to people’s preferences

### Values
* The app will help people live healthy lifestyles in cases where people don’t have access to professional advice  
* Healthcare professionals could be negatively affected by this since people could bypass seeking professional help by using technology to assess and improve their health.  
* People’s health could be negatively affected if people find misinformation or misdiagnose themselves with technology  
* Using technology to give suggestions on how to live healthier lifestyles requires data from the user, but this may violate some people’s notion of what kind of data should be kept private  
* People could feel criticized by the app assessing their health and well being  
* The app should always encourage eco-friendly recommendations

## Revised Impact Case
The problem of barriers preventing people from living a healthy lifestyle is important because oftentimes people do not have the time or resources to overcome these barriers. Barriers often include things such as time, lack of knowledge, lack of skill, inaccessible information, low funds, and low motivation (Interview \#1).

Our solution to address this problem is an app which acts as a middleman between patients and health professionals (doctors, nurses, personal trainers, etc.). Through this app, patients are able to report symptoms and receive exercise/lifestyle change prescriptions recommended by health professionals. The app will involve a tracker that allows both patients to hold themselves accountable and health professionals to track patient’s progress. This app specifically aims to fill a gap for those who are unable to receive consistent medical care, a well-known problem in the medical industry (Interview \#4, Source 4). A built-in tracker allows both users and professionals to monitor progress on eating, exercise habits, and any other lifestyle choice changes. While there are existing apps which allow users to track workouts or calories, research shows these applications are not as effective as standalone tools (Source 3). Additionally, interviewees expressed that being able to track progress must be easy as taking a selfie at the gym rather than inputting calorie counts for every meal (Interview \#1, \#3).  Research and interviews both suggest that adding a social aspect such as group goal-setting to this application would increase users’ motivation to live healthier lifestyles (Interview \#1, Interview \#2). To ensure users actually get the help they need, the app will include features such as modifying regimen difficulty and scheduling doctors appointments (Interview \#2, 4\)

We believe this app is a good solution because it directly removes the barriers of time and inaccessible information—if people have an issue, they can report their symptoms and get a reputable plan to help alleviate these symptoms. This solution empowers those who don’t have resources to see a doctor as frequently as they may need. While there are many health issues which require appointments and prescriptions outside of exercise/lifestyle changes, this app is focused on overall helping people bridge the gap towards a healthy way of living. 

We could measure user-reported improvements in physical and mental health, and reduced symptom severity to prove that our application is a good solution to removing barriers preventing people from living a healthy lifestyle. To quantify this data, users will be asked to rank improvements or symptom severity on a scale from 1-10 just as they would at the doctor’s office (Interview \#4).